docs(manifest): Improve `icons` member page (#34725)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/manifest/icons/index.md

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.

## Syntax

```json-nolint
/* Single icon with the minimum required property */

> "icons":

Reviewer: These may _need_ to be arrays: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/34725/files#r1759389846

Author: Updated to array in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/34725/commits/7d5f76556a72ff961eb0e38a1207c591e8239baa

  {
    "src": "icon/basic-icon.png"
  }

/* Single icon with multiple purposes */
"icons":
  {
    "src": "icon/basic-icon.png",

>     "purpose": "monochrome maskable any"

Reviewer: There is no point in specifying anything else with `any`, since any means every.
```suggestion
    "purpose": "monochrome maskable"
```

  }

/* Two icons with various properties */
"icons": [
  {
  "src": "icon/lowres.png",
  "sizes": "48x48"
  },
  {
  "src": "maskable_icon.png",
  "sizes": "48x48",
  "type": "image/png"
  }
]
```

### Values

- `icons`

>   - : An object or an array of objects.

Author: This was earlier "An array of objects". Changed this to "An object or an array of objects" since one or more icons can be specified

Reviewer: @dipikabh "An array of objects" means that the minimal example is this:

```json
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "icon/basic-icon.png"
  }
]
```

"An object or an array of objects" means that the minimal example is as below (but the above would be OK too)

```json
"icons": 
  {
    "src": "icon/basic-icon.png"
  }
```

In other words you can specify an object without the array. Is that the case? None of the examples in the spec show the minimal case, and when I read it, I _think_ that it **expects** a list/array.

If this is wrong, you will also need to fix up the syntax section.

Reviewer 2: The spec isn't very clear but the ["unofficial schema"](https://w3c.github.io/manifest/#json-schema) expects an array: https://json.schemastore.org/web-manifest.

Author: Thanks both! The value is indeed an array, irrespective of the number of objects. Updating the value description as well as the syntax block.

    Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context.
    For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.

>     Each icon object can have one or more properties. Of these, only `src` is required. The possible properties include:

Author: Changed "keys" to "properties" here

    - `src`

      - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file.
        If `src` is relative, the path is resolved relative to the manifest file's URL.
        For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`.

    - `sizes` {{Optional_Inline}}

      - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.

>         Each `<size-value>` is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
>         Multiple `<size-value>` tokens can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
>         When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context.
>         For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended.
>         For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
>         If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.
> 
>         Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.

Reviewer: We no longer define `<size-value>` so we shouldn't use it here as though we had

```suggestion
        Each size is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
        If multiple sizes are specified, they are separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
        When multiple icons are available, browsers may select the most suitable icon for a particular display context.
        For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended.
        For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
        If  `sizes` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.

        Note that the format of the size values is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.
```

Author: Oops! Yes, the placeholder value should be removed now

        With multiple keywords, say `monochrome maskable`, the browser can use the icon for any of those purposes.
        If an unrecognized purpose is included along with valid values (e.g., `monochrome fizzbuzz`), the icon can still be used for the valid purposes.
        However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., `fizzbuzz`), then it will be ignored.

        Valid values include:

        - `monochrome`

          - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill.
            With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.

        - `maskable`

          - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away.

        - `any`
          - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.

## Description

The context in which an icon can be used is determined by the browser and the operating system, based on the specified sizes and formats.

> When working with icon images, both security and performance are important considerations.

Reviewer: I'd be tempted just to have sub headings here - ie. change this to:

```suggestion
### Security considerations
```

And below, perhaps `### Performance considerations`.

Author: We have several instances of "Security considerations" and few instances of "Performance considerations" sections as H2s in our docs (mostly in APIs area). So I'll add these headings as H2s.

Also going to move the second sentence from the intro para to the "Description".

Author: Done in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/34725/commits/7ea08d2b595d9f1227c62c8ef933c48dda486afd

The browser's ability to fetch an icon image is governed by the Content Security Policy ({{Glossary("CSP")}}) of the manifest's owner document, specifically by the [`img-src`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/img-src) directive. This security aspect is related to the `src` property. For example, if the `img-src` directive in a CSP header specifies `icons.example.com`, icons from only that domain would be fetchable. In a manifest with two icons, one from `icons.example.com/lowres` and another from `other.com/hi-res`, only the former would be fetched successfully because of CSP restrictions.

> The `type` property plays a part in determining performance. While this property is optional, specifying it can improve performance significantly. It allows browsers to quickly ignore images with formats they do not support. If you don't specify the `type` property, it is recommended to specify appropriate and unambiguous file extensions for the icon images to ensure correct handling by the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifying the `type` property can significantly improve performance as it allows browsers to more easily ignore images with formats they do not support. If you don't specify the `type` property, the browser may be forced to infer the type using more resource-intensive approaches, such as reading the file for a file type signature, or similar.
Minimally, if you don't specify the `type` property, you should use appropriate and unambiguous file extensions for the icon images.
```

Author: Thanks. Going with this version with a few more tweaks:

"Specifying the `type` property can significantly improve performance because it allows browsers to ignore images with unsupported formats more easily.
If you don't specify the `type` property, browsers may need to infer the image format using more resource-intensive methods, such as [MIME sniffing](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types#mime_sniffing) the file for a signature.

At a minimum, if you omit the `type` property, use appropriate and unambiguous file extensions for your icon images."

- An [ICO](/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#ico_microsoft_windows_icon) file is provided with multiple sizes ranging from `72x72` to `256x256`. ICO files contain multiple raster icons that are individually optimized for various display sizes. Icons at these sizes are commonly used for desktop shortcuts.

- For larger icons (`257x257` and above), an [SVG](/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#svg_scalable_vector_graphics) file is specified. The `sizes` value of this icon is set to `any`, which allows a browser to use this icon at any size. SVG icons maintain their quality at larger sizes. These icons ate ideal for high-resolution displays like in [progressive web apps (PWAs)](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps).

```json

> {

Author: Ensuring that examples have the outer curly braces `{ }` to represent a complete JSON object. This is also consistent with the examples in the spec.

Reviewer: Good. Doesn't matter to me as long as you are consistent across all the manifest docs.

  "icons": [
    {
      "src": "icon/lowres.webp",
      "sizes": "48x48",
      "type": "image/webp"
    },
    {
      "src": "icon/lowres",
      "sizes": "48x48"
    },
    {
      "src": "icon/hd_hi.ico",
      "sizes": "72x72 96x96 128x128 256x256"
    },
    {
      "src": "icon/hd_hi.svg",
      "sizes": "any"
    }
  ]
}
```

> 

Reviewer: I'd suggest a post process, but the spec has quite a lot of information on masking, which might be useful in an example.

Author: Agree. Lot of useful examples in the spec for `maskable` and `monochrome` that can be included in our docs. Adding this to my list of To Dos in a future iteration.

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.

## Syntax

```json
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "<icon-url>",
    "sizes": "<size-values>",
    "type": "<mime-type>",
    "purpose": "<purpose-keywords>"
  }
]
```

### Keys

> - `icons`
> 
>   - : An array of objects.
>     Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.
>     Each icon object can have one or more properties, with `src` being the only required property. The possible values for these properties are:
> 
>   - `src`
> 
>     - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file.
>       If `src` is relative, the path is resolved relative to the manifest file's URL.
>       For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`.
> 
>   - `sizes` {{Optional_Inline}}

Author: ```suggestion
- `icons`

  - : An array of objects.
    Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.
    Each icon object can have one or more properties, with `src` being the only required property. The possible values for these properties are:

    - `src`

      - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file.
      If `src` is relative, the path is resolved relative to the manifest file's URL.
      For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`.

    - `sizes` {{Optional_Inline}}
```

>     - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.
>       Each `<size-value>` is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
>       Multiple `<size-value>` tokens can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
>       When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context.
>       For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended.
>       For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
>       If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.
> 
>       Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.
> 
>   - `type` {{Optional_Inline}}
> 
>     - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon.
>       The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image.
>       If omitted, browsers typically infer the image type from the file extension.
> 
>   - `purpose` {{Optional_Inline}}
> 
>     - : A case-sensitive keyword string that specifies one or more contexts in which the icon can be used by the browser or operating system.
>       The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords.
>       If omitted, the browser can use the icon for any purpose.
> 
>       Browsers use these values as hints to determine where and how an icon is displayed.
>       For example, a `monochrome` icon might be used as a badge or pinned icon with a solid fill, which is visually distinct from a full-color launch icon.
>       With multiple keywords, say `monochrome maskable`, the browser can use the icon for any of those purposes.
>       If an unrecognized purpose is included along with valid values (e.g., `monochrome fizzbuzz`), the icon can still be used for the valid purposes.
>       However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., `fizzbuzz`), then it will be ignored.
> 
>       Valid values include:
> 
>       - `monochrome`
> 
>         - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill.
>           With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.
> 
>       - `maskable`
>         - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away.
>       - `any`
>         - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.

Author: ```suggestion
      - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.
        Each `<size-value>` is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
        Multiple `<size-value>` tokens can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
        When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context.
        For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended.
        For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
        If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.

        Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.

    - `type` {{Optional_Inline}}

      - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon.
        The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image.
        If omitted, browsers typically infer the image type from the file extension.

    - `purpose` {{Optional_Inline}}

      - : A case-sensitive keyword string that specifies one or more contexts in which the icon can be used by the browser or operating system.
      The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords.
      If omitted, the browser can use the icon for any purpose.

      Browsers use these values as hints to determine where and how an icon is displayed.
      For example, a `monochrome` icon might be used as a badge or pinned icon with a solid fill, which is visually distinct from a full-color launch icon.
      With multiple keywords, say `monochrome maskable`, the browser can use the icon for any of those purposes.
      If an unrecognized purpose is included along with valid values (e.g., `monochrome fizzbuzz`), the icon can still be used for the valid purposes.
      However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., `fizzbuzz`), then it will be ignored.

      Valid values include:

        - `monochrome`
          - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill.
          With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.

        - `maskable`
          - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away.
        
        - `any`
          - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.
```

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.

## Syntax

```json

> "icons": [
>   {
>     "src": "<icon-url>",
>     "sizes": "<size-values>",
>     "type": "<mime-type>",
>     "purpose": "<purpose-keywords>"
>   }
> ]

Reviewer: @dipikabh Thank you for making all those changes. I asked @wbamberg for his advice on this and he made the observation that one thing that might be useful to borrow from CSS data types is making the syntax box a real example. 
We could partially copy the old example here.

The benefit is that you can immediately see how this is used, and then you explain it. 
The down side for me would be that we could no longer refer our values in the abstract, like `<size-values>`, but I think it is worth it.

```suggestion
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "icon/lowres.webp",
    "sizes": "48x48",
    "type": "image/webp"
    "purpose": "maskable"
  },
  {
    "src": "icon/lowres",
    "sizes": "48x48"
  }
]
```

Author: #### CSS

So yes, over in CSS, for properties (random example: [`bottom`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/bottom#syntax)) and functions (random example: [`color()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/color)), we use real examples of possible values (and this Syntax format is defined in the templates: [css property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types/CSS_property_page_template#syntax) and [css function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types/CSS_function_page_template#syntax)).

I wouldn't say that the "Syntax" block is a real example in CSS; rather each line is an individual example. The Syntax block shows all the keyword values and other possible values as examples, one per line. And then the "Examples" section uses one or more specific property-value pairs, similar to those demo'ed in Syntax, and some other surrounding code to illustrate the property.

#### Manifest

A lot of the manifest pages already have these code blocks as Examples, like in [`related_applications`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications#examples), [`launch_handler`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/launch_handler#examples), [`shortcuts`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/shortcuts#examples) (notice that all these have objects or object arrays as values).

IMO, it would not make sense to repeat (more or less, even with slight value change) the "Example" code in the "Syntax" block. For manifest members with boolean values or keyword values, we'd just be repeating the exact code. That's why when I started adding the "Syntax" section to manifest pages, I incorporated the placeholder variable format, as is done over in APIs with parameters, so that we don't end up repeating code in Syntax and Examples.

The `icons` and other similar manifest members that have multiple sub keys cannot be treated similar to CSS properties/functions because it's chunk of code in manifest that goes together (compared to a single property-value line of code in CSS). 

#### Wishful

If we could add comments to JSON, I could break up the "Syntax" block to show different use cases, like we do in CSS. For example, in `icons`, we could have `// all object properties` followed by icons code with all the properties and ` // only the required src property` followed by example code. The Syntax block in `display` manifest member (open PR - https://pr35557.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/display) could have multiple entries to show all possible keyword values.

=====

All that said, let's look the possible solutions:
- Do you think it is an overkill or adding more confusion to have the "Syntax" section for manifest pages? None of the original manifest members have a "Syntax" section. It was something I thought would be nice to add.
- Are there manifest pages you like in their current form, so I can follow that template with some cleanup?
   - For example, to the original https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/icons, I can limit changes to:
      - Move Values before Examples
      - Rename Values to Keys
      - Change the table in Values to definition list
      - Add Description

Reviewer: @dipikabh Firstly, just addressing "wishful"

> If we could add comments to JSON, I could break up the "Syntax" block to show different use cases, like we do in CS

You can. Syntax blocks don't have to be strict JSON, and in any case the syntax below is commonly used in JSON and even survives many parsers even though not spec compliant.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8f3d79eb-68a1-4fab-8c3d-4a56b6b995b5)

I think this works really well for the cases that are just like CSS, i.e. the key-value cases.

I am not sure how it would work with icons, but I think it well worth trying - do you want to mock up a case as I have done here for icons?

Reviewer: W.r.t. to the rest and _All that said, let's look at the possible solutions:_

1. I don't want to say too much, because I am hoping that icons syntax block works out nicely and we can follow the CSS model for this case too.
   - My gut feeling is that it would not be "endlessly scalable/nestable" but it might work well for the real world manifest cases we have.
2. The old format examples and some form of syntax are something that I like - they give you an immediate idea of what the actual entry will really look like. That is why I prefer we do have a syntax or example near the top. I prefer the syntax showing a real-world example or all real world example to the  `<placeholder>` approach if pragmatic.
3. We've gone around the name for the Values, Keys, Properties etc. I like "Keys", but on further thought I have no problem with any of them. 
   
   Despite my earlier comments (sorry) I think I prefer `Values` - we're documenting the values of the keys. As long as we list keys as the definition item this is OK. The preference is because `Values` is used more broadly across the docs for this heading.

4. Looking at the old format it is much prettier, largely because it uses tables instead of definition lists and contains much less information. That doesn't make it better.
   -  Tables are a more compact form. Everywhere else we have moved to definition lists because keys are linkable, and tables are awful in markdown. This is better, especially as you have added more info.
   - The only visually unnecessary thing in the old form is the `type` such as "Array" up the top.
   - The example up the top serves same point as our syntax block. I think I find it more useful, but if we can get our `syntax` block to work for icons then I will prefer that :-)

In summary, I think we're iterating towards something better. It will never be as pretty, but it will be as or more useful.

Author: What do you think about this for `icons`:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2991a560-5917-4592-840b-659b538d3a5e)

Author: @hamishwillee I've updated all the three files in this PR with syntax blocks (examples instead of placeholder values) and "Values" instead of keys

Reviewer: OK, that looks great. I'm happy for the pages to be like that :-)

```

### Keys

- `icons`

  - : An array of objects.
    Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context.
    For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.

>     Each icon object can have one or more properties, with `src` being the only required property. The possible values for these properties are:

Reviewer: If we're not calling them properties ... (IMO we can in this context, so this is just a "note", and I'm mixing it up a bit)

```suggestion
    Each icon object can define values for one or more keys with `src` being the only required property. The possible values for these keys are:
```

Author: Okay to go with either keys or properties I think. In either case, the last sentence needs updating after the back and forth between values and keys.

Actually, the first can also be split up. 

I think we can use "can have" in the first sentence to make it more direct and straightforward.

```suggestion
    Each icon object can have one or more keys. Of these, only `src` is a required key. The possible keys include:
```

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.

## Syntax

```json
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "icon/lowres.webp",
    "sizes": "48x48",
    "type": "image/webp"
  }
]
```

### Values

The value of the `icons` member is an array of objects. Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.

> Each object in the array includes one or more of the following properties (`src` is the only required property):

Author: ```suggestion
Each object in the array can have one or more of the following properties (`src` is the only required property):
```

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

> The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that serve as iconic representations of your web application in different contexts. These icons represent your web app among a list of other applications. They can also be used to integrate your web app with an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, and other places when an app icon is needed.

Reviewer: - Icons represent apps, not icon files
- Sentence seemed redundant.
- 
```suggestion
The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons that represent your web application in different contexts.
The icons uniquely identify your web app in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, and other places when an app icon is needed.
```

Reviewer: PS I tend to use one line per sentence. That isn't the rule in MDN as you know, but it makes reviewing and suggestions much easier :-)

Author: All good suggestions! Incorporating with slight tweaks - moving the "different contexts" bit to the second sentence

```suggestion
The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.
```

## Syntax

```json
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "icon/lowres.webp",
    "sizes": "48x48",
    "type": "image/webp"
  }
]
```

### Values

The value of the `icons` member is an array of objects. Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes. You can add different icons for integration with various operating systems. You can also add icons for splash screens or app notifications.

> ### Properties
> 

Reviewer: I don't think this heading is necessary of helpful.
```suggestion
```

Each object in the array includes one or more of the following properties (`src` is the only required property):

- `src`

  - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file. If `src` is a relative URL, the path is resolved relative to the URL of the manifest file. For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`. `src` is a required property.

- `sizes`

>   - : A string that specifies one or more dimensions of the icon. Each dimension is specified as `<width>x<height>`. Mutiple dimensions are separated by spaces, as in `48x48 96x96`. Specifying multiple sizes allows a browser to select the most appropriate one for the context. The `sizes` property uses the same syntax as the [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute of the `<link>` HTML element. This property is optional; if not specifed, the default value of `any` is used, which indicates that the icon can be used at any size.

Reviewer: So this indicates the sizes that an icon can scale to/be used at? Hence an SVG could be any size, but a PNG probably has a fairly small range?

I think you need to say that first. Also x and y are both dimension, so if you say "one more more dimensions" it is a bit confusing because you could mean that specifying `x` is OK. So maybe we just call it a size.

"Specifying multiple sizes allows a browser to select the most appropriate one for the context" implies that an icon file has multiple icons, but that is not necessarily the case. (I'm making assumptions here)

```suggestion
  - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon be used. Each size is specified as `<width>x<height>`. Multiple sizes are separated by spaces, as in `48x48 96x96`. Specifying multiple sizes allows a browser to use the icon in all contexts where it is appropriate. The `sizes` property uses the same syntax as the [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute of the `<link>` HTML element. This property is optional; if not specified, the default value of `any` is used, which indicates that the icon can be used at any size.
```

Author: - Oops, sorry for the typos
- Agree with your dimension vs size suggestion, makes sense.
- While digging further for some clarifications, I came across https://w3c.github.io/image-resource/#sizes-member and the discussion in https://github.com/w3c/manifest/issues/925, and so adding some more tweaks on top of the version you've suggested.
- Moved the HTML link element info earlier to the description, so it doesn't break the flow later.
- I'm going to drop the reference to "any" because even though it is referenced in `<link>`'s [`sizes`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes), I don't see an explicit mention in https://w3c.github.io/image-resource/#sizes-member.
- Also, capturing here the fact that https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/semantics.html#attr-link-sizes refers to "unordered set of unique space-separated tokens" whereas https://w3c.github.io/image-resource/#sizes-member says "As a general rule, order is significant and "first match wins". "

```suggestion
  - : A string that specifies one or more sizes of the icon, similar to the the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute. Each size is specified as `<width>x<height>`. Multiple sizes can be specified, separated by spaces, as in `48x48 96x96`. When multiple icons are available, browsers may use the `sizes` value to use the most suitable icon for a display context. This property is optional; if not specified, the behavior may vary depending on the browser's implementation.
```

Reviewer: Thanks. Merging then I will re-review if needed.

- `type`

>   - : A string that specifies the media type (also known as the {{Glossary("MIME type")}}) of the icon. The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image. This property is optional; if not specified, a browser typically uses the file extension to determine the image type.

Reviewer: I am assuming here that the string specifies a MIME type that represents the media type - in that case let's just say that

```suggestion
  - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon. The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image. This property is optional; if not specified, a browser typically uses the file extension to determine the image type.
```

> - `purpose`
>   - : A string that specifies one or more the purposes of the icon, which indicate how the icon should be used by the browser or operating system. The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords. Valid keyword values include `monochrome`, `maskable`, and `any` and are case-sensitive. This property is optional; `any` is assumed if no value is specified. If multiple values are specified, they should be listed in the following order of precedence:
>     - `monochrome`: Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill. With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.
>     - `maskable`: Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away by a browser.
>     - `any`: Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.

Reviewer: 1. Repeating the value names is a little annoying
2. How about make them definition lists so they are linkable?
3. So this isn't wrong, but maybe ...

```suggestion
- `purpose`
  - : A string that specifies one or more the purposes of the icon, which indicate how the icon should be used by the browser or operating system. The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords. This property is optional; `any` is assumed if no value is specified. If multiple values are specified, they should be listed in order of precedence.
 
    Valid values (case-sensitive) are listed below, in order of precedence:
  
    - `monochrome`
      - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill. With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.
    - `maskable`
      - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away by a browser.
    - `any`
      - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.
```

Author: Going with your suggested version (it looks cleaner but I am curious to see if it will render okay), but with two changes:
- Removed "the" after "one or more" (typo in original)
- Changed lead-in to "Valid values are case-sensitive and listed below in order of precedence:"
```suggestion
- `purpose`
  - : A string that specifies one or more purposes of the icon, which indicate how the icon should be used by the browser or operating system. The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords. This property is optional; `any` is assumed if no value is specified. If multiple values are specified, they should be listed in order of precedence.
 
    Valid values are case-sensitive and listed below in order of precedence:
  
    - `monochrome`
      - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill. With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.
    - `maskable`
      - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away by a browser.
    - `any`
      - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.
```

The `type` property plays a part in determining performance. While this property is optional, specifying it can improve performance significantly. It allows browsers to quickly ignore images with formats they do not support. If you don't specify the `type` property, it is recommended to specify clear file extensions for the icon images to ensure correct handling by the browser.

## Examples

### Declaring multiple icons

This example shows how to declare multiple icons for different scenarios and devices. If an icon for a specific situation is not supported or not available, browsers will fall back to other available formats and sizes.

- Two icons of the same size (`48x48`) are provided in different formats. The first is explicitly specified as [WebP](/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#webp_image) using the `type` property. If a browser doesn't support WebP, it will fall back to the second icon of the same size. For the second icon, the browser will determine the MIME type either from the HTTP header or by inferring it from the image file's content. Icons at this size are typically used for browser tabs and bookmarks.

> - For smaller icons (up to `256x256`), an [ICO](/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#ico_microsoft_windows_icon) file is provided. ICO files contain multiple raster icons that are individually optimized for small display sizes. icons at these sizes are commonly used for desktop shortcuts.

Reviewer: Smaller icons?

Reviewer: Ah, I see, smaller than the larger one that follows. This doesn't make sense, because the point follows 48x48

Reviewer: Note also capitalisation: `. icons at`

Author: Good point, removing the confusing text. And fixing the casing in last sentence.
```suggestion
- An [ICO](/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#ico_microsoft_windows_icon) file is provided with multiple sizes ranging from `72x72` to `256x256`. ICO files contain multiple raster icons that are individually optimized for various display sizes. Icons at these sizes are commonly used for desktop shortcuts.
```

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.

## Syntax

```json
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "icon/lowres.webp",
    "sizes": "48x48",
    "type": "image/webp"
  }
]
```

### Values

> The value of the `icons` member is an array of objects. Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes. You can add different icons for integration with various operating systems. You can also add icons for splash screens or app notifications.

Author: ```suggestion
The value of the `icons` member is an array of objects. Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.
```

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.

## Syntax

```json

> "icons": [
>   {
>     "src": "icon/lowres.webp",
>     "sizes": "48x48",
>     "type": "image/webp"
>   }
> ]

Author: To make this generic and to also include purpose:
```suggestion
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "iconURL",
    "sizes": "iconWidthxiconHeight",
    "type": "image/imageFormat",
    "pupose": "monochrome | maskable | any"
  }
]
```

```

### Values

The value of the `icons` member is an array of objects. Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.

Each object in the array can have one or more of the following properties (`src` is the only required property):

- `src`

  - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file. If `src` is a relative URL, the path is resolved relative to the URL of the manifest file. For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`. `src` is a required property.

> - `sizes`

Author: ```suggestion
- `sizes` {{Optional_Inline}}
```

  - : A string that specifies one or more dimensions of the icon. Each dimension is specified as `<width>x<height>`. Mutiple dimensions are separated by spaces, as in `48x48 96x96`. Specifying multiple sizes allows a browser to select the most appropriate one for the context. The `sizes` property uses the same syntax as the [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute of the `<link>` HTML element. This property is optional; if not specifed, the default value of `any` is used, which indicates that the icon can be used at any size.

> - `type`

Author: ```suggestion
- `type` {{Optional_Inline}}
```

  - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon. The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image. This property is optional; if not specified, a browser typically uses the file extension to determine the image type.

> - `purpose`

Author: ```suggestion
- `purpose` {{Optional_Inline}}
```

  - : A string that specifies one or more purposes of the icon, which indicate how the icon should be used by the browser or operating system. The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords. This property is optional; `any` is assumed if no value is specified. If multiple values are specified, they should be listed in order of precedence.

>     Valid values (case-sensitive) are listed below, in order of precedence:

Author: ```suggestion
    Valid values are case-sensitive and listed below in order of precedence:
```

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.

## Syntax

```json
"icons": [
  {

>     "src": "iconURL",
>     "sizes": "widthxheight",
>     "type": "mimeType",
>     "purpose": "keywordValue"

Reviewer: We don't really have a pattern in syntax for representing objects like this, in particular the description. I have a leaning towards this kind of syntax, which more clearly indicates placeholder than just a camel case term.

```suggestion
    "src": "<icon URL>",
    "sizes": "<width>x<height>",
    "type": "<mime type>",
    "purpose": "<keyword>"
```

Author: Agree! Coming after fixing your suggestion in `theme_color`, I would also add a hyphen.
I realized that `<size-values>` would be a better term (dt) when we list it in the definition list.

```suggestion
    "src": "<icon-url>",
    "sizes": "<size-values>",
    "type": "<mime-type>",
    "purpose": "<purpose-keyword>"
```

  }
]
```

### Values

> The value of the `icons` member is an array of objects. Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.
> 
> Each object in the array can have one or more of the following properties (`src` is the only required property):

Author: Update lead-in so that it refers to a list of values and not properties
```suggestion
The `icons` member is an array of objects. Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.

Each icon object can have one or more properties, with `src` being the only required property. The possible values for these properties are:
```

> - `src`

Author: ```suggestion
- `<icon-url>`
```

>   - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file. If `src` is a relative URL, the path is resolved relative to the URL of the manifest file. For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`. `src` is a required property.

Reviewer: We don't talk about required properties - that is what the "optional" tag is for. I'd let it slide, but you mentioned this in the line above, and to me that is appropriate.

```suggestion
  - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file. If `src` is a relative URL, the path is resolved relative to the URL of the manifest file. For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`.
```

Author: Agree, this can be dropped now that we have the optional tag for the others

>   - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file. If `src` is a relative URL, the path is resolved relative to the URL of the manifest file. For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file. If `<icon-url>` is relative, the path is resolved relative to the manifest file's URL. For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`.
```

> - `sizes` {{Optional_Inline}}

Author: ```suggestion
- `<size-values>` {{Optional_Inline}}
```

>   - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon can be used, and is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute. Each size is specified as `<width>x<height>`. Multiple sizes can be specified, separated by spaces, as in `48x48 96x96`. When multiple icons are available, browsers may use the `sizes` value to use the most suitable icon for a display context. This property is optional; if not specified, the behavior may vary depending on the browser's implementation. For raster images like PNG, specifying exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use "any" to indicate scalability.

Reviewer: This is good but suggested changes because:
1. I would like to be explicit about units. 
2. Should it be icon file or icon resource in first line My understanding is that it might be an icon that is fixed, or scalable, or that contains multiple sizes. If we just say icon then it omits the last case.
3. Feel free to remove my layout stuff, that's just for me to make sure I have clearly addressed each part.

 ```suggestion
  - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon resource can be used.
    Each size is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`, and multiple sizes can be specified, separated by spaces: `48x48 96x96`.
    When multiple icons are available, browsers may use the `sizes` value to use the most suitable icon for a display context.
    This property is optional; if not specified, the behavior may vary depending on the browser's implementation.
    For raster images like PNG, specifying exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
    
   Note that is is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.
```

Author: 1. Good point. We can make it specific for PNGs.
2. I think prefer to go with icon file. That's what we're also saying in `<icon-url>`.

I also moved "if not specified" a sentence down.

```suggestion
  - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.
     For raster formats like PNG, each size is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
     Multiple sizes can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
     When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context. For raster images, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
     If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.
     
     Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute. 
```

> - `type` {{Optional_Inline}}

Author: ```suggestion
- `<mime-type>` {{Optional_Inline}}
```

>   - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon. The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image. This property is optional; if not specified, a browser typically uses the file extension to determine the image type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon. The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image. This property is optional; if not specified, a browser typically uses the file extension to infer the image type.
```

Author: Slight tweak in the last sentence

```suggestion
  - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon.
    The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image.
    If omitted, browsers typically infer the image type from the file extension.
```

> - `purpose` {{Optional_Inline}}

Author: ```suggestion
- `<purpose-keyword>` {{Optional_Inline}}
```

>   - : A string that specifies one or more purposes of the icon, which indicate how the icon should be used by the browser or operating system. The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords. This property is optional; `any` is assumed if no value is specified. If multiple values are specified, they should be listed in order of precedence.
>     Valid values are case-sensitive and listed below in order of precedence:

Reviewer: 1. Purpose is a "not great" word choice here, because my first thought was "use in task switcher", "use in desktop" etc. Is there a better term - "contexts", "features"?
2. I think "can" be used is more useful here than "should".
3. Not sure `any` should be styled as it is not a keyword.
4. I found the repetition of precedence a little confusing, but I now get that it is the specification precedence, not a user precedence - i.e. you have to use this precedence, it isn't you saying "use this icon for maskable, then monochrome. Might be better only mention once. 

Maybe Something like:

```suggestion
  - : An optional case-sensitive keyword string that specifies one or more contexts in which the icon can be used by the browser or operating system. The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords. If no value is specified then "any context" is assumed. If multiple values are specified, they should be listed in the precedence order given below:
```

Author: All fair points. I like your version.
- Dropping "optional" because it will be indicated by the tag.
- Actually, the [purpose spec](https://w3c.github.io/manifest/#purpose-member) does not specify any precedence order. In fact it says the values are an "unordered set".
- Adding some more bits and examples from the spec:

```suggestion
  - : A case-sensitive keyword string that specifies one or more contexts in which the icon can be used by the browser or operating system.
     The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords.
     If omitted, the browser can use the icon for `any` purpose.
     
     Browsers use these values as hints to determine where and how an icon is displayed.
     For example, a `monochrome` icon might be used as a badge or pinned icon with a solid fill, which is visually distinct from a full-color launch icon.
     With multiple keywords, say `monochrome maskable`, the browser can use the icon for any of those purposes.
     If an unrecognized purpose is included along with valid values (e.g., `monochrome fizzbuzz`), the icon can still be used for the valid purposes.
     However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., "fizzbuzz"), those values will be ignored.
    
    Valid values include:
```

    - `monochrome`
      - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill. With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.
    - `maskable`

>       - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away by a browser.

Reviewer: Repetitive and fully inferable from context.
```suggestion
      - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away.
```

    - `any`
      - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.

## Description

The context in which an icon can be used is determined by the browser and the operating system, based on the specified sizes and formats.

When working with icon images, both security and performance are important considerations.

The browser's ability to fetch an icon image is governed by the Content Security Policy ({{Glossary("CSP")}}) of the manifest's owner document, specifically by the [`img-src`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/img-src) directive. This security aspect is related to the `src` property. For example, if the `img-src` directive in a CSP header specifies `icons.example.com`, icons from only that domain would be fetchable. In a manifest with two icons, one from `icons.example.com/lowres` and another from `other.com/hi-res`, only the former would be fetched successfully because of CSP restrictions.

> The `type` property plays a part in determining performance. While this property is optional, specifying it can improve performance significantly. It allows browsers to quickly ignore images with formats they do not support. If you don't specify the `type` property, it is recommended to specify clear file extensions for the icon images to ensure correct handling by the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `type` property plays a part in determining performance. While this property is optional, specifying it can improve performance significantly. It allows browsers to quickly ignore images with formats they do not support. If you don't specify the `type` property, it is recommended to specify appropriate and unambiguous file extensions for the icon images to ensure correct handling by the browser.
```

## Syntax

```json
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "<icon-url>",
    "sizes": "<size-values>",
    "type": "<mime-type>",
    "purpose": "<purpose-keyword>"
  }
]
```

### Values

The `icons` member is an array of objects. Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.

Each icon object can have one or more properties, with `src` being the only required property. The possible values for these properties are:

- `<icon-url>`

  - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file. If `<icon-url>` is relative, the path is resolved relative to the manifest file's URL. For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`.

- `<size-values>` {{Optional_Inline}}

  - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.

>     For raster formats like PNG, each size is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.

Author: ```suggestion
    Each size is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
```

    Multiple sizes can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.

>     When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context. For raster images, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.

Author: ```suggestion
    When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context. For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
```

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.

## Syntax

```json
"icons": [

>   {

Reviewer: FWIW I think this format is better  for the values.

    "src": "<icon-url>",
    "sizes": "<size-values>",
    "type": "<mime-type>",

>     "purpose": "<purpose-keyword>"

Author: ```suggestion
    "purpose": "<purpose-keywords>"
```

  }
]
```

### Values

The `icons` member is an array of objects. Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.

Each icon object can have one or more properties, with `src` being the only required property. The possible values for these properties are:

- `<icon-url>`

  - : A string that specifies the path to the icon image file. If `<icon-url>` is relative, the path is resolved relative to the manifest file's URL. For example, the relative URL `images/icon-192x192.png` for the manifest file located at `https://example.com/manifest.json` will be resolved as `https://example.com/images/icon-192x192.png`.

> - `<size-values>` {{Optional_Inline}}
> 
>   - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.
>     Each size is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
>     Multiple sizes can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
>     When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context. For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
>     If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.
> 
>     Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.

Author: ```suggestion
  - `sizes` {{Optional_Inline}}
    - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.
        Each `<size-value>` is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
        Multiple `<size-value>` tokens can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
        When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context.
        For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended.
        For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
        If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.
        
        Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.
```

> - `<size-values>` {{Optional_Inline}}
> 
>   - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.
>     Each size is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
>     Multiple sizes can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
>     When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context. For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
>     If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.
> 
>     Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.
> 

Reviewer: @dipikabh I appreciate you just changed this to be the object values and not the property names. My concern about this is that while it is the property values we need to document, it is the properties that we _normally_ document and that are optional. So it is a bit odd to say ``<size-values>` {{Optional_Inline}}` - it is `sizes` that is optional inline.

But perhaps a better option is to do something like this - named as the property, but refer to the value using the token you defined above?

```suggestion
- `sizes` {{Optional_Inline}}

  - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.
    Each `<size-value>` is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
    Multiple `<size-value>` tokens can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
    When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context. For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
    If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.

    Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.

```

There is no standard for this, so consider this comment "for discussion".

Reviewer: PS I haven't re-reviewed any of the text - will do so when this discussion winds down.

Author: My idea was to maintain consistency across manifest members with both simple (string, boolean) and complex (object, array) values, and always referring to the top-level item as the manifest member.

For `theme_color`, I wanted to avoid referring to this top-level item as both a "manifest member" and a "property". So I changed what we list in the [Values](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/theme_color#values) section to the placeholder value. And similarly for `icons`, I listed the placeholder values that make up its object properties. [display](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/display) manifest member also lists the keyword values.

I considered renaming the "Values" section to "Properties", but it wouldn't accurately represent members like `theme_color` that have simple values. I thought listing and explaining values, instead of properties, could serve as the common denominator across all manifest members.

Another option is to not have any subsection in the "Syntax" section. We can then list and explain all the fields. So on `theme_color` page, it would be a definition list of `theme_color`. And on `icons` page, the definition list would include `icons` (for consistency with pages like `theme_color` that list the manifest member) as well as the constituent properties `sizes`, `src`, `type`, and `purpose`. But this might also mean indenting the object properties in the definition list to show the hierarchy.

Happy to hear any other suggestions you may have to balance this need for consistency as well as keeping it clear and simple for readers. 

> My concern about this is that while it is the property values we need to document, it is the properties that we normally document and that are optional.

I guess I drew inspiration from the CSS area, where the "Values" section in property reference pages lists keyword and placeholder values. I thought that format could work well here as well. 

> So it is a bit odd to say `` {{Optional_Inline}} - it is `sizes` that is optional inline.

I agree with you that adding the inline optional tag with the value is not accurate because it's the property that's optional, not the value. I'll remove this tag. A sentence upfront mentioning which properties are required should suffice.

Reviewer: CSS isn't perhaps the best model to use for inspiration since _everything_ is key-value. It doesn't reflect your actual problem space.

Web APIs are a better model here since they can work with objects of deeper structure. Specifically, these are more like the parameters passed to or returned from an API. See https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Clipboard/read

Or even something like the JSON representation: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script/type/importmap#import_map_json_representation

Anyway, my feeling is that the way I have proposed is **much** better since it matches the data. So we call them properties, and for `theme-color you would do: (thoughts?)

----

## Syntax

```json
"theme_color": "<color-value>"
```

### Properties

- `theme_color`

  - : A string that specifies a [valid color value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value).

    > [!NOTE]
    > Browsers may ignore the alpha component of the color based on the context.
    > In most environments, `theme_color` cannot be transparent.
    > It's recommended to use fully opaque colors (alpha value of 1 or 100%) to ensure consistent behavior across different platforms and browsers.

Author: 1. Should we remove the sub-section altogether ([your previous suggestion](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/34725#discussion_r1675102859)), that is, having neither "Values" nor "Properties" as a heading? That way we can maintain consistency in always referring to the top-level items as manifest members (rather than properties) in both the introduction and the "Syntax" section. Calling them properties wouldn't necessarily be incorrect; I'm being pedantic.

2. Applying this `theme_color` format to the `icons` page, _minus the sub-section_, here's how it would look. Two things that I want to highlight here:
- Just like in `theme_color`, `the icons` page will also list `icons` as a term with a definition. This format can be replicated across all manifest member pages, regardless of whether the value is simple or complex. It essentially lists all the keys present in the JSON syntax.
- Since some properties, like `purpose` in this case, have their own sub-list of values, this format lists the object properties at the same level as `icons` to avoid multiple nested sub-lists. The Syntax block will still show the actual hierarchy.

## Syntax

```json
  "member": "value"
```

- `icons`
   - : An array of objects.....
       Each object can have one or more properties defined below, with `src` being the only required property.
- `src`
  - : desc
- `sizes` [optional]
  - : desc
- `type`  [optional]
  - : desc
- `purpose`  [optional]
  - : desc...
       Valid values include:
     - value1
       - : desc

Does this work for you?

Author: @hamishwillee, hope you get this notification 🙂

Reviewer: Hi @dipikabh 
Fortunately this showed up in my pull request list :-).

This reinvents the wheel contrary to accepted norms on the MDN. That's fine, if it is objectively better or meets the domain better. Is it?

IMO propably "not quite as good, certainly no better than what we do in APIs". 

- The reason for "Keys" is that this is what [Chrome use](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/manifest), and they were first. I strongly prefer this to manifest _members_.
- The reason for having a heading at all just consistency - we use one everywhere else in the library, so reinventing the wheel seems unnecessary.
- Ditto for the flat layout of the key names - it is consistent to nest the properties of nested things across MDN, so to choose not to do this needs to be objectively better. I find the nesting useful. In particular `icons` feels wrong to talk about the array but then not show the nested objects.

I'm quite visual. Below is your proposal vs what I proposed. 

Now most of that ^^^ is quite opinionated. I don't want to railroad you. Is there something particular in this approach that makes it better for readers?

And if you remain unconvinced, let's see what other team members think. 

---

## Syntax

----
```json
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "<icon-url>",
    "sizes": "<size-values>",
    "type": "<mime-type>",
    "purpose": "<purpose-keywords>"
  }
]
```

- `icons`
   - : An array of objects.....
       Each object can have one or more properties defined below, with `src` being the only required property.
- `src`
  - : desc
- `sizes` {{Optional_Inline}}

  - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.
    Each `<size-value>` is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
    Multiple `<size-value>` tokens can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
    When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context. For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
    If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.

    Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.
- `type`  {{Optional_Inline}}
  - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon.
    The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image.
    If omitted, browsers typically infer the image type from the file extension.
- `purpose` {{Optional_Inline}}
  - : A case-sensitive keyword string that specifies one or more contexts in which the icon can be used by the browser or operating system.
    The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords.
    If omitted, the browser can use the icon for any purpose.

    Browsers use these values as hints to determine where and how an icon is displayed.
    For example, a `monochrome` icon might be used as a badge or pinned icon with a solid fill, which is visually distinct from a full-color launch icon.
    With multiple keywords, say `monochrome maskable`, the browser can use the icon for any of those purposes.
    If an unrecognized purpose is included along with valid values (e.g., `monochrome fizzbuzz`), the icon can still be used for the valid purposes.
    However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., `fizzbuzz`), then it will be ignored.

    Valid values include:

    - `monochrome`
      - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill. With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.
    - `maskable`
      - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away.
    - `any`
      - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.

---
## Syntax

----
```json
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "<icon-url>",
    "sizes": "<size-values>",
    "type": "<mime-type>",
    "purpose": "<purpose-keywords>"
  }
]
```

### Keys

- `icons`
   - : An array of objects.....
       Each object can have one or more properties defined below, with `src` being the only required property.
     - `src`
       - : desc
     - `sizes` {{Optional_Inline}}

       - : A string that specifies one or more sizes at which the icon file can be used.
         Each `<size-value>` is specified as `<width in pixels>x<height in pixels>`.
         Multiple `<size-value>` tokens can be specified, separated by spaces, for example: `48x48 96x96`.
         When multiple icons are available, browsers may use `<size-values>` to select the most suitable icon for a display context. For raster formats like PNG, specifying the exact available sizes is recommended. For vector formats like SVG, you can use `any` to indicate scalability.
         If `<size-values>` is not specified, the selection and display of the icon may vary depending on the browser's implementation.

         Note that the format of `<size-values>` is similar to the HTML `<link>` element's [`sizes`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#sizes) attribute.
     - `type`  {{Optional_Inline}}
       - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon.
         The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image.
         If omitted, browsers typically infer the image type from the file extension.
     - `purpose` {{Optional_Inline}}
       - : A case-sensitive keyword string that specifies one or more contexts in which the icon can be used by the browser or operating system.
         The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords.
         If omitted, the browser can use the icon for any purpose.

         Browsers use these values as hints to determine where and how an icon is displayed.
         For example, a `monochrome` icon might be used as a badge or pinned icon with a solid fill, which is visually distinct from a full-color launch icon.
         With multiple keywords, say `monochrome maskable`, the browser can use the icon for any of those purposes.
         If an unrecognized purpose is included along with valid values (e.g., `monochrome fizzbuzz`), the icon can still be used for the valid purposes.
         However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., `fizzbuzz`), then it will be ignored.

         Valid values include:

         - `monochrome`
           - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill. With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.
         - `maskable`
           - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away.
         - `any`
           - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.

Author: This works for me. Using "Keys" as heading is JSON appropriate and more neutral than "Values" or "Properties" - thanks for the suggestion!

Author: @hamishwillee I've made the suggested updates. Ready for you to take another look. Thanks!

> - `<mime-type>` {{Optional_Inline}}
> 
>   - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon.
>     The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image.
>     If omitted, browsers typically infer the image type from the file extension.

Author: ```suggestion
  - `type` {{Optional_Inline}}
    - : A string that specifies the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} of the icon.
        The value should be in the format `image/<subtype>`, where `<subtype>` is a specific image format; for example, `image/png` indicates a PNG image.
        If omitted, browsers typically infer the image type from the file extension.
```

> - `<purpose-keyword>` {{Optional_Inline}}

Author: ```suggestion
- `<purpose-keywords>` {{Optional_Inline}}
```

  - : A case-sensitive keyword string that specifies one or more contexts in which the icon can be used by the browser or operating system.
    The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords.

>     If omitted, the browser can use the icon for `any` purpose.

Author: ```suggestion
    If omitted, the browser can use the icon for any purpose.
```

    Browsers use these values as hints to determine where and how an icon is displayed.
    For example, a `monochrome` icon might be used as a badge or pinned icon with a solid fill, which is visually distinct from a full-color launch icon.
    With multiple keywords, say `monochrome maskable`, the browser can use the icon for any of those purposes.
    If an unrecognized purpose is included along with valid values (e.g., `monochrome fizzbuzz`), the icon can still be used for the valid purposes.

>     However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., "fizzbuzz"), then it will be ignored.

Author: ```suggestion
    However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., `fizzbuzz`), then it will be ignored.
```

>     However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., "fizzbuzz"), those values will be ignored.

Author: ```suggestion
    However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., "fizzbuzz"), then it will be ignored.
```

> - `<purpose-keywords>` {{Optional_Inline}}
> 
>   - : A case-sensitive keyword string that specifies one or more contexts in which the icon can be used by the browser or operating system.
>     The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords.
>     If omitted, the browser can use the icon for any purpose.
> 
>     Browsers use these values as hints to determine where and how an icon is displayed.
>     For example, a `monochrome` icon might be used as a badge or pinned icon with a solid fill, which is visually distinct from a full-color launch icon.
>     With multiple keywords, say `monochrome maskable`, the browser can use the icon for any of those purposes.
>     If an unrecognized purpose is included along with valid values (e.g., `monochrome fizzbuzz`), the icon can still be used for the valid purposes.
>     However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., `fizzbuzz`), then it will be ignored.
> 
>     Valid values include:

Author: ```suggestion
  - `purpose` {{Optional_Inline}}
    - : A case-sensitive keyword string that specifies one or more contexts in which the icon can be used by the browser or operating system.
        The value can be a single keyword or multiple space-separated keywords.
        If omitted, the browser can use the icon for any purpose.
        
        Browsers use these values as hints to determine where and how an icon is displayed.
        For example, a `monochrome` icon might be used as a badge or pinned icon with a solid fill, which is visually distinct from a full-color launch icon.
        With multiple keywords, say `monochrome maskable`, the browser can use the icon for any of those purposes.
        If an unrecognized purpose is included along with valid values (e.g., `monochrome fizzbuzz`), the icon can still be used for the valid purposes.
        However, if only unrecognized purposes are specified (e.g., `fizzbuzz`), then it will be ignored.
        
        Valid values include:
```

>     - `monochrome`
>       - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill. With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.
>     - `maskable`
>       - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away.
>     - `any`
>       - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.

Author: ```suggestion
        - `monochrome`
          - : Indicates that the icon is intended to be used as a monochrome icon with a solid fill.
              With this value, a browser discards the color information in the icon and uses only the alpha channel as a mask over any solid fill.
              
        - `maskable`
          - : Indicates that the icon is designed with icon masks and safe zone in mind, such that any part of the image outside the safe zone can be ignored and masked away.
        - `any`
          - : Indicates that the icon can be used in any context. This is the default value.
```

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}

The `icons` manifest member is used to specify one or more image files that define the icons to represent your web application.
These icons uniquely identify your web app in different contexts, such as in an operating system's task switcher, system settings, home screen, app listings, and other places when application icons are displayed.

## Syntax

```json
"icons": [
  {
    "src": "<icon-url>",
    "sizes": "<size-values>",
    "type": "<mime-type>",
    "purpose": "<purpose-keywords>"
  }
]
```

### Keys

> - `icons`
>   : - An array of objects.
>   Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.
>   Each icon object can have one or more properties, with `src` being the only required property. The possible values for these properties are:

Author: ```suggestion
- `icons`
  - : An array of objects.
  Each object represents an icon to be used in a specific context. For example, you can add icons to represent your web app on devices with different screen sizes, for integration with various operating systems, for splash screens, or for app notifications.
  Each icon object can have one or more properties, with `src` being the only required property. The possible values for these properties are:
```

]
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> - [Image file type and format guide](/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#webp_image)

Author: Add spec links to these two topics. These links existed in the previous version of the page as part the purpose keyword descriptions.
```suggestion
- [Image file type and format guide](/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#webp_image)
- [Monochrome icons and solid fills](https://w3c.github.io/manifest/#monochrome-icons-and-solid-fills)
- [Icon masks and safe zone](https://w3c.github.io/manifest/#icon-masks)
```
